libsiphon-ws(3) -- WebSocket pull parser and encoder
====================================================



## SYNPOSIS

**\#include <siphon/siphon.h>**

void<br>
**sp_ws_init** (SpWs \*p);

void<br>
**sp_ws_reset** (SpWs \*p);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_next** (SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len);

bool<br>
**sp_ws_is_done** (const SpWs \*p);

size_t<br>
**sp_ws_mask** (void \*dst, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_enc_frame** (void \*buf, const SpWsFrame \*f);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_enc_ctrl** (void \*buf, const SpWsCtrlOpcode code, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_enc_ping** (void \*buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_enc_pong** (void \*buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_enc_close** (void \*buf, SpWsStatus stat, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_meta_length** (const SpWs \*p);

ssize_t<br>
**sp_ws_payload_length** (const SpWs \*p, uint64_t \*len);

void<br>
**sp_ws_print_meta** (const SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out);

void<br>
**sp_ws_print_payload** (const SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out);

const char *<br>
**sp_ws_status_string** (SpWsStatus stat);


## DESCRIPTION

The WS functions are used to parse and encode WebSocket frames. The
WebSocket pull parser does not make any memory allocations, allowing the
caller fine control over the memory use and continuation of the parser. For
full information about the WebSocket protocol refer to RFC 6455. Any terms
or concepts not fully defined here will likely be clarified there.

### sp_ws_init (SpWs \*p)

Initialize the parser to read a WebSocket frame. The parser, `p`, can be in
any state at the time of initialization.

### sp_ws_reset (SpWs \*p)

Re-initialize the parser the the state.

### sp_ws_next (SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len)

Parses the next token in the input. A value less than 0 will be returned to
indicate an error. Otherwise, `p->type` will contain the value type that
was matched and the return value indicates the number of bytes
consumed. The next call to this function expects `buf` to start this many
bytes further. It is up to the caller to advance the buffer. This may be
accomplished through a byte offset, memmove(3), or any other scheme that
ensure the condition is met.

If `p->type` is `SP_WS_NONE`, than more information must be read into
the buffer before parsing can resume. Repeatedly calling next while in this
state will trigger an `SP_WS_ETOOSHORT` error.

See [ERRORS][] for information on possible errors returned.

### sp_ws_is_done (const SpWs \*p)

Checks if the parser is in a done state. It is safe to call `sp_ws_next`
while in a done state, so it is important to check this to identify a
completed frame.

### sp_ws_mask (void \*dst, const void \*restrict buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key)

Applies the masking algorithm to `len` bytes of `buf` using the `key` and
stores the result in `dst`. The same algorithm is used to mask and unmask
the data.

### sp_ws_enc_frame (void \*buf, const SpWsFrame \*f)

Encodes the frame, `f`, into `buf`. Refer to `siphon/ws.h` for details on
the `SpWsFrame` struct.

### sp_ws_enc_ctrl (void \*buf, const SpWsCtrlOpcode code, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key)

A helper function to encode control frames. In practice, it's more useful
to use one the control frame encoding functions below.

### sp_ws_enc_ping (void \*buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key)

Encodes a PING control frame. `len` is the length of the optional
payload. `len` implies `key` if the caller is a client since the payload
will have to be masked.

### sp_ws_enc_pong (void \*buf, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key)

Encodes a PONG control frame. `len` is the length of the optional
payload. `len` implies `key` if the caller is a client since the payload
will have to be masked.

### sp_ws_enc_close (void \*buf, SpWsStatus stat, size_t len, const uint8_t \*key)

Encodes a CLOSE control frame. `stat` is an optional but recommended status
code. Refer to `siphon/ws.h` for the full list of statuses. If `stat` is
zero, no status code will be encoded. In accordance with RFC 6455, the
status code will be encoded as a 2-byte unsigned integer at the beginning
of the payload. `len` is the length of the optional payload following the
2-byte status and 2 bytes of padding (used to align with the 4-byte masking
key). This means the maximum allowed value of `len` here is 121 bytes,
.i.e, the 125 bytes allowed by RFC 6455 minus the 4 bytes
aforementioned. `len` implies `key` if the caller is a client since the
payload will have to be masked. `sp_ws_status_string` can be used to obtain
a well-known string to add to the payload, although, in certain cases, it's
more useful to include other data such as debugging information.

### sp_ws_meta_length (const SpWs \*p)

Returns the length of the metadata portion of the WebSocket frame. This
length can be anywhere from 2 to 14 bytes depending on the number of bytes
which contain the length of the payload and the presence of a masking key.

### sp_ws_payload_length (const SpWs \*p, uint64_t \*len)

Returns the length of the payload portion of the WebSocket frame. The
length will be stored in `len`. An unsigned 64-bit integer is needed to
store the length since that is the largest variable size that it could
occupy.

### sp_ws_print_meta (const SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out)

A utility function to print the value currently matched in the parser. The
`buf` is expected to be in the same state as when `sp_ws_next` was called.
The value, if any, will be written to `out`.

### sp_ws_print_payload (const SpWs \*p, const void \*restrict buf, FILE \*out)

A utility function to print the payload portion of the frame, applying the
masking algorithm first if necessary.

### sp_ws_status_string (SpWsStatus stat)

Returns the string added to the IANA registry for the specified status.


## ERRORS

When calling `sp_ws_next` one of the following errors may be returned:

* `SP_WS_ESYNTAX`:
  The byte sequence passed could not be parsed as valid WebSocket frame

* `SP_WS_ETOOSHORT`: The parser failed to parse a value do to too little
  data. The parser allows for several passes before triggering this
  error. This error usually indicates a stalled or malicious input.

When calling `sp_ws_next`, `sp_ws_length` or `sp_ws_payload_length`
the following error may be returned:

* `SP_WS_ESTATE`: The internal parser state is not valid. This typically
  occurs from externally changing the parser intentionally or as a result
  of a buffer over flow.

When calling `sp_ws_enc_ctrl`, `sp_ws_enc_ping`, `sp_ws_enc_pong`
or`sp_ws_enc_close`, the following error may be returned:

* `SP_WS_CTRLMAX`: The payload length is too large for a control frame. It
  should be no longer than 125 bytes.


## EXAMPLE

```C
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <siphon/siphon.h>

static int fd = STDIN_FILENO;
static char buf[9192]; // buffer to read into
static size_t end = 0; // last byte position in the buffer
static size_t off = 0; // offset into the buffer

// reads more from fd into buffer
static void read_more (void);

// reads raw body bytes from the buffer and/or socket
static void read_raw (size_t len);

int
main (void)
{
	SpWs p;
	sp_ws_init (&p);

	while (!sp_ws_is_done (&p)) {
		ssize_t rc = sp_ws_next (&p, buf+off, end-off);
		// TODO: handle parser errors gracefully
		if (rc < 0) sp_exit (rc, EXIT_FAILURE);

		// could not parse a token so read more
		if (rc == 0) {
			read_more ();
			continue;
		}

		// TODO: do something with the token
		sp_ws_print_meta (&p, buf+off, stdout);

		// mark the used range of the buffer
		off += rc;

		// handle payload
		if ((!p.as.masked && p.type == SP_WS_PAYLEN) ||
				(p.as.masked && p.type == SP_WS_MASK_KEY)) {
			size_t payload;
			sp_ws_payload_length (&p, &payload);
			read_raw (payload);
		}
	}

	return 0;
}

void
read_more (void)
{
	if (off == end) {
		// nothing to move so reset
		end = off = 0;
	}
	else if (end > sizeof (buf) / 2) {
		// reclaim buffer space if more than half is used
		memmove (buf, buf+off, end-off);
		end -= off;
		off = 0;
	}

	// read more at the end of the buffer
	ssize_t n = read (fd, buf+end, sizeof (buf) - end);
	if (n < 0) sp_exit (errno, EXIT_FAILURE);

	// push out end position
	end += n;
}

void
read_raw (size_t len)
{
	while (len > 0) {
		// only process the amount in the buffer
		size_t amt = len;
		if (amt > end - off) amt = end - off;

		// read more if nothing is availble
		if (amt == 0) {
			read_more ();
			continue;
		}

		// write out the raw bytes
		fwrite (buf+off, 1, amt, stdout);
		fflush (stdout);

		len -= amt; // update number of raw bytes remaining
		off += amt; // update buffer offset position
	}
}
```
